alright guys figure to show you this I
just ran into this issue here yeah this
is a Coleman Schmitt bearing box it's
the Chairman bearing for Volkswagen
Motors bought few parks for this 1915
and stumbled onto this well we've got
some original TRW exhaust valves for our
heads isn't as simple as those were old
new old stock so we were able to get
four of those
however the bearing we have become an
issue this is something that I noticed
these are steel back bearings and they
hold up very well you know some
applications if the oil pumps not right
and whatever you know you will get some
bearing wearing these and I don't think
the bearing something that you could
cheapen however I just bought this set
of bearings this is a brand new set of
bearings here then these are all
original this is what happens when
somebody buys the company and uses the
boxes and puts a shady party in it this
is a Calvin Smith this is an old ball
bearing this is the one out of the bus
motor we just or park today oh it's got
some wear on it it's fairly new it's a
little discolored probably from sitting
more than anything but this is the same
bearing this is a center main bearing
and they've redesigned this bearing
quite a bit it used to feed through this
oil hole here and then fill this line up
and would have a reservoir oil and the
crank would ride in here and it would
grab its oil out of this Croft they've
taken the line out of the bearing and
moved to the back of the bearing now and
I'm assuming that the oil feeds up
through this channel and into this hole
into the bearing surface and this little
duck that they have here and we've got
something like that in the case that
that doesn't bother me so much you know
I mean looks like you might have a
little more bearing surface this way a
little more support for the crank that's
not the issue this is the issue you go
over here to the scale that's our old
bang 82 point 82 grams and this is our
new bearing 31 grams I don't know guys
they've taken all the steel out of the
bearing it looks like they've made it
all aluminum and I don't have anybody's
right into an issue with this up and
they're AG good luck with aluminum
bearings mr. fish uses aluminum rod
bearing and they don't hold up very well
and sort of looking for some old
bearings now I guess so I'm not going on
the skewers and hit the shelf and see if
there's an old set down there everything
fits nice this case is our 1914 and our
bearing fits and everything I just don't
like the fact that it's an aluminum
bearing and not a steel back bearing and
even the weight of the aluminum is off
78 couple grams lighter even the
aluminum is lighter so I don't know I
don't know just something I stumbled
onto I take these out and they feel like
there's nothing to okay
they're almost 60 grams lighter than the
old ones the old German ones
so there you go that's what happens when
somebody buys company and uses the boxes
and takes the good part out and puts the
shitty part in and I like that kind so
now we got a problem problem with that
we got to figure out what we're gonna do
for bearings somebody had mentioned this
to me I hadn't run into it yet this is
the first motor I built where I've
gotten the new run of bearings I guess
and these are over 25 standard thrusts
standard bore on the case said morrel
I'll get online and look around see if I
can find something old-school for this
particular motor I don't want to take
any chances this was a good friend on
the YouTube bridge and we want to make
sure his stuff runs correctly for awhile
and I would think of the steel back
bearing would only go you know 50 70
thousand miles this bearing is gonna be
much shorter lived so yeah that's not a
good deal so I don't know if anybody
else is running to this issue or not but
uh not good we've got several bearings
in here and here's the new design and so
they've taken the new design one step
further and cheeping the process and
made it lighter took all the steel out
so instead of having layers of steel
Babbitt no it's just one big piece of
aluminum in there like a shim so this is
sort of odd I'm sure other guys have run
into this that build more murders than
me and
I don't know figure something out to be
continued